# MODEL1006230117: Iancu2007_CardiacMyoscytes_cAMPsignaling

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230117.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230117.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Compartmentation of cAMP signaling in cardiac myocytes: a computational study.**   
Iancu RV, Jones SW, Harvey RD. _Biophys J_ 2007 May 1;92(9):3317-31
[17293406](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17293406) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Receptor-mediated changes in cAMP production play an essential role in
sympathetic and parasympathetic regulation of the electrical, mechanical, and
metabolic activity of cardiac myocytes. However, responses to receptor
activation cannot be easily ascribed to a uniform increase or decrease in cAMP
activity throughout the entire cell. In this study, we used a computational
approach to test the hypothesis that in cardiac ventricular myocytes the
effects of beta(1)-adrenergic receptor (beta(1)AR) and M(2) muscarinic
receptor (M(2)R) activation involve compartmentation of cAMP. A model
consisting of two submembrane (caveolar and extracaveolar) microdomains and
one bulk cytosolic domain was created using published information on the
location of beta(1)ARs and M(2)Rs, as well as the location of stimulatory
(G(s)) and inhibitory (G(i)) G-proteins, adenylyl cyclase isoforms inhibited
(AC5/6) and stimulated (AC4/7) by G(i), and multiple phosphodiesterase
isoforms (PDE2, PDE3, and PDE4). Results obtained with the model indicate
that: 1), bulk basal cAMP can be high ( approximately 1 microM) and only
modestly stimulated by beta(1)AR activation ( approximately 2 microM), but
caveolar cAMP varies in a range more appropriate for regulation of protein
kinase A ( approximately 100 nM to approximately 2 microM); 2), M(2)R
activation strongly reduces the beta(1)AR-induced increases in caveolar cAMP,
with less effect on bulk cAMP; and 3), during weak beta(1)AR stimulation,
M(2)R activation not only reduces caveolar cAMP, but also produces a rebound
increase in caveolar cAMP following termination of M(2)R activity. We conclude
that compartmentation of cAMP can provide a quantitative explanation for
several aspects of cardiac signaling.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Iancu RV, Jones SW, Harvey RD. (2007) -
version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/a2d3723fb275f206327ed8b6b77051b7)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Geoffrey Nunns**   
gnunns1@jhu.edu  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


